error handling (#148)
oneapi-src/oneAPI-spec: source/elements/oneDAL/source/common_interface/error_handling.rst

.. _error_handling:

==============
Error handling
==============

> oneDAL error handling relies on mechanism of C++ exceptions. If an error occurs,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
oneDAL error handling relies on the mechanism of C++ exceptions. If an error occurs,
```

it must be propagated at the point of a function call where it can be caught
using С++ exception handlers.

> Exceptions classification
> =========================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exception classification
========================
```

> Classification is aligned with C++ STL classification. oneDAL base exception
> classes are abstract. Leaf classes are also inherited from the corresponding STL
> exceptions. Only these classes can be thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exception classification in onDAL is aligned with C++ STL classification. Base exception
classes in oneDAL are abstract. Leaf classes are also inherited from the corresponding STL
exceptions. Only these classes can be thrown.
```

`Only these classes can be thrown.` -- this sounds strange to me: you throw exceptions, not classes + maybe it should be merged with the previous sentence?

Reviewer: also I'd spell-out the first usage of STL

The root of exception hierarchy is ``onedal::exception``. All throwing
exceptions are inheritors of this one.

::

    class onedal::exception;

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 65 5
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Exception
     - Description
     - Abstract

>    * - onedal::exception

Reviewer: rst markup?
```
``onedal::exception``
```

and for other exceptions as well

.. _error_handling:

==============
Error handling
==============

oneDAL error handling relies on mechanism of C++ exceptions. If an error occurs,
it must be propagated at the point of a function call where it can be caught
using С++ exception handlers.

Exceptions classification
=========================

> Classification is aligned with C++ STL classification. oneDAL base exception

Reviewer 2: oneDAL shall introduce abstract classes defining the base for for hierarchy of exception classes.  Leaf classes in this hierarchy are derived/inherited from respective STL exception classes. oneDAL library shall throw only the exceptions represented with the leaf classes
- Do we have a better term than leaf?

classes are abstract. Leaf classes are also inherited from the corresponding STL
exceptions. Only these classes can be thrown.

> The root of exception hierarchy is ``onedal::exception``. All throwing

Reviewer 2: The base class of the exception hierarchy is ...The rest exception classes are derived from this class.

> exceptions are inheritors of this one.

Reviewer: `throwing exceptions` doesn't seem to be the right term

::

    class onedal::exception;

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 65 5
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Exception
     - Description
     - Abstract
   * - onedal::exception

>      - Base class for all throwing exceptions.

Reviewer: the meaning is unclear
for classes that throw exceptions? for exceptions that are thrown?

     - Yes

``onedal::logic_error``, ``onedal::runtime_error`` and ``onedal::bad_alloc`` are inheritors of ``onedal::exception``.

::

    class onedal::logic_error : public onedal::exception;
    class onedal::runtime_error : public onedal::exception;
    class onedal::bad_alloc :  public onedal::exception, public std::bad_alloc;

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 65 5
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Exception
     - Description
     - Abstract
   * - onedal::logic_error
     - Reports violations of preconditions and invariants.
     - Yes
   * - onedal::runtime_error

>      - Reports violations of postconditions and other errors that are due to events beyond the scope of the program.

Reviewer 2: and other errors happened(?) during the execution of oneDAL functionality

     - Yes
   * - onedal::bad_alloc
     - Reports failure to allocate storage.
     - No

Precondition and invariant errors that are represented by ``onedal::logic_error``

> divide in subgroups.

Reviewer: You need to rephrase this.
`divide in subgroups` is incorrect, `are divided into the following subgroups:` is better

::

>     class onedal::invalid_argument :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::invalid_argument;

Reviewer 2: Introduce the description similar to the one I mentioned earlier but using a short sentence, w/o listing all those exceptions

    class onedal::domain_error :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::domain_error;
    class onedal::out_of_range :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::out_of_range;
    class onedal::unimplemented_error :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::logic_error;
    class onedal::unavailable_error :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::logic_error;

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 65 5
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Exception
     - Description
     - Abstract
   * - onedal::invalid_argument

>      - Reports situations where the argument has
>        not been accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Reports situations when the argument was
       not accepted.
```

I think you might need a bit more info here to tell the difference between this error and the ones below

     - No
   * - onedal::domain_error

>      - Reports situations where the argument is outside of the domain on which

Reviewer: where -> when

>        an operation is defined. Higher priority than

Reviewer: the operation

       ``onedal::invalid_argument``.
     - No
   * - onedal::out_of_range

>      - Reports situations where index is out of range. Higher priority

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Reports situations when the index is out of range. Higher priority
```

       than ``onedal::invalid_argument``.
     - No

>    * - onedal::unimplemented_error

Reviewer 2: Generally, the description of the exceptions should be improved. Immediately after 0.8

>      - Reports errors that arise because an algorithm or method is not implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Reports errors that arise because an algorithm or a method is not implemented.
```

     - No
   * - onedal::unavailable_error
     - Reports situations when a device or data is not available.
     - No

If an error occurs during function execution after preconditions and invariants
were checked, it is reported via ``ondeal::runtime_error`` inheritors. oneDAL distinguishes

> OS facilities and range errors in internal computations, while other errors are

Reviewer 2: sounds confusing 
need a better wording for OS error, with this wording I can't immediately associate it and range errors

reported via ``onedal::internal_error``.

::

    class onedal::range_error :  public onedal::runtime_error, public std::range_error;

>     class onedal::overflow_error :  public onedal::runtime_error, public std::overflow_error;

Reviewer 2: we wanted to remove overflow

    class onedal::system_error :  public onedal::runtime_error, public std::system_error;
    class onedal::internal_error :  public onedal::runtime_error, public std::runtime_error;

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 65 5
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Exception
     - Description
     - Abstract
   * - onedal::range_error

>      - Reports situations where a result of a computation cannot be represented by the destination type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Reports situations when the result of a computation cannot be represented by the destination type.
```

.. _error_handling:

==============
Error handling
==============

oneDAL error handling relies on the  mechanism of C++ exceptions. If an error
occurs, it shall be propagated at the point of a function call where it can be

> caught using standard C++ error handling mechanism.

Reviewer: suggestion: `where it is caught using the standard...`

Exception classification
========================

> Exception classification in onDAL is aligned with C++ STL classification. oneDAL

Reviewer 2: C++ Standard Library classifciation

> shall introduce abstract classes defining the base for for hierarchy of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shall introduce abstract classes that define the base class in the hierarchy of
```

> exception classes. Сoncrete exception classes are derived from respective STL

Reviewer 2: Concrete ->Specific / particular
Replace STL

> exception classes. Concrete exception classes are derived from respective STL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exception classes. Concrete exception classes are derived from the respective STL
```

exception classes. oneDAL library shall throw exceptions represented with

> concrete classes.

Reviewer 2: specific

Reviewer: non-abstact? concrete seems to be the term from OOP, are there others? I don't think "specific" works here

> The root of exception hierarchy is ``onedal::exception``. The rest exception

Reviewer 2: the base of

Reviewer: suggestion 

```
In the hierarchy of onDAL exceptions, ``onedal::exception`` is the base abstract class
that all other exception classes are derived from.
```

classes are derived from this class.

::

    class onedal::exception;

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 65 5
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Exception
     - Description
     - Abstract
   * - ``onedal::exception``

>      - Base class of oneDAL exception hierarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - The base class of oneDAL exception hierarchy.
```

     - Yes

> All errors divide into 3 groups: logic errors, runtime errors and bad allocation.

Reviewer 2: divided, the use of bullets is better
All oneDAL exceptions shall be divided into three groups:
- logic
- runtime
- bad allocation - but it is confusing as a group

> All errors divide into 3 groups: logic errors, runtime errors and bad allocation.

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
All oneDAL exceptions shall be divided into three groups:

- logic errors
- runtime errors
- errors with allocation
```

::

    class onedal::logic_error : public onedal::exception;
    class onedal::runtime_error : public onedal::exception;
    class onedal::bad_alloc :  public onedal::exception, public std::bad_alloc;

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 65 5
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Exception
     - Description
     - Abstract
   * - ``onedal::logic_error``
     - Reports violations of preconditions and invariants.
     - Yes
   * - ``onedal::runtime_error``
     - Reports violations of postconditions and other errors happened during the
       execution of oneDAL functionality.
     - Yes
   * - ``onedal::bad_alloc``
     - Reports failure to allocate storage.
     - No

> Precondition and invariant errors that are represented by

Reviewer 2: the same bullet based approach is easier to consume

> Precondition and invariant errors that are represented by
> ``onedal::logic_error`` are divided into subgroups: invalid argument, domain
> error, out of range error, unimplemented method or algorithm, unavailable
> device or data.

Reviewer: like this?

```suggestion
All precondition and invariant errors represented by ``onedal::logic_error`` 
shall be divided into the following groups:

- invalid argument errors 
- domain errors
- out of range errors
- errors with an unimplemented method or algorithm
- unavailable device or data
```

    class onedal::out_of_range :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::out_of_range;
    class onedal::unimplemented_error :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::logic_error;
    class onedal::unavailable_error :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::logic_error;

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 65 5
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Exception
     - Description
     - Abstract
   * - ``onedal::invalid_argument``
     - Reports situations when the argument was not been accepted.
     - No
   * - ``onedal::domain_error``
     - Reports situations when the argument is outside of the domain on which
       the operation is defined. Higher priority than
       ``onedal::invalid_argument``.
     - No
   * - ``onedal::out_of_range``
     - Reports situations when the index is out of range. Higher priority
       than ``onedal::invalid_argument``.
     - No
   * - ``onedal::unimplemented_error``
     - Reports errors that arise because an algorithm or a method is not
       implemented.
     - No
   * - ``onedal::unavailable_error``
     - Reports situations when a device or data is not available.
     - No

> If an error occurs during function execution after preconditions and invariants

Reviewer 2: Align wording with the style above
Errors that occurs during the execution of toneDAL functionality are represented with  ... shall be divided into...

> If an error occurs during function execution after preconditions and invariants
> were checked, it is reported via ``ondeal::runtime_error`` inheritors. oneDAL
> distinguishes errors happened during interaction with OS facilities and errors
> of destination type's range in internal computations, while other errors are
> reported via ``onedal::internal_error``.

Reviewer: i don't thin it's very helpful

```suggestion
All errors that occur during execution of oneDAL functionality shall be divided into the following groups:

- system errors
- runtime errors
- internal errors
```

.. _error_handling:

==============
Error handling
==============

Common rules
============

oneDAL error handling uses exceptions. If an error occurs, it can be propagated
at the point of a function call. An exception will be thrown and may be caught

> by the user using standard C++ exception handling mechanisms. There are 2 ways

Reviewer: 2 should be spelled out

suggestion: add more structure when you talk about approaches (e.g., use a bullet list)

of handling oneDAL errors. First is through standard C++ exception classes.
Second is based on our own exceptions hierarchy. Its base class is
onedal::exception. Exceptions can be divided into subgroups via its inheritors.
OneDAL exceptions hierarchy is similar to C++ STL exceptions.

Divison rules
=============

Divison is aligned with C++ STL divison. onedal::exception, onedal::logic_error

> and onedal::runtime_error are abstract and can't be thrown in clear representation.

Reviewer: here and in the table below as well, should we use rst markup for these?
```
``onedal::exception``, ``onedal::logic_error``
```

    class onedal::out_of_range :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::out_of_range;
    class onedal::unimplemented_error :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::logic_error;
    class onedal::unavailable_error :  public onedal::logic_error, public std::logic_error;

    class onedal::range_error :  public onedal::runtime_error, public std::range_error;
    class onedal::overflow_error :  public onedal::runtime_error, public std::overflow_error;
    class onedal::system_error :  public onedal::runtime_error, public std::system_error;
    class onedal::internal_error :  public onedal::runtime_error, public std::runtime_error;

    class onedal::bad_alloc :  public onedal::exception, public std::bad_alloc;

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Exception
     - Description
   * - onedal::exception
     - It is abstract base class for all throwing exceptions.
   * - onedal::logic_error
     - It is abstract class and reports errors that are a consequence of faulty
       logic within the program such as violating logical preconditions or class
       invariants and may be preventable.
   * - onedal::runtime_error

>      - It is abstract class and reports errors that are due to events beyond the scope of the program and can not be easily predicted.

Reviewer: I think it makes sense to split the table and introduce the separate table for these three as they are abstract

   * - onedal::invalid_argument
     - It reports errors that arise because an argument value has not been accepted.
   * - onedal::domain_error
     - It reports situations where the inputs are outside of the domain on which an operation is defined.
   * - onedal::out_of_range
     - It reports errors that are consequence of attempt to access elements out of defined range.
   * - onedal::unimplemented_error
     - It reports errors that arise because an algorithm or method is not implemented.
   * - onedal::unavailable_error
     - It reports situations when a device or data is not available.
   * - onedal::range_error
     - It reports situations where a result of a computation cannot be represented by the destination type.
   * - onedal::overflow_error
     - It reports arithmetic overflow errors (that is, situations where a result of a computation is too large for the destination type)
   * - onedal::system_error
     - It reports exceptions that have an associated error_code.
   * - onedal::internal_error
     - It reports all runtime errors that couldn't be assigned to other inheritors.
   * - onedal::bad_alloc

>      - It reports failure to allocate storage.

Reviewer: for the rest of exceptions, I'd add a new column with its type (logic error, runtime error)
plus it makes sense to sort alphabetically for each type of error
